
Week 3 Research

Prompts

What are ten different data types MySQL provides?

Char
Varchar
TEXT
BLOB
Int
Float
Double
Date
Timestamp
Boolean



How is each data type you described used, and what makes it unique?

1.) Char
Char is a character field of fixed length. 
Char is padded to length with spaces upon storage and provides better 
perfomance than Varchar when the character field length is a know quantity. 

2.) Varchar
Varchar is a non binary variable length string of up to 64K characters with
a length prefix of 1 or 2 bytes.
Use when a string is of an bounded but not predetermined length.
Varchar does not strip nor pad the input string with spaces.

3.) TEXT
Text is a variable sized text string of up to 4GB.  TEXT does not pad 
or truncate spaces and does not store the data in the DB server memory.
TEXT also comes in TINY, MEDIUM and LONG sizes.

4.) BLOB 
Binary Large object.  
Used for storing raw binary objects such as graphics or documents.
BLOB also comes in TINY, MEDIUM and LONG sizes.

5.) Int
Standard 32 bit integer which may declared as signed or unsigned. 
Used for whole numbers.

6.) Float
Single precision floating point number.
Used for real numbers.

7.) Double
Double precision floating point number where size and number of digits
after the decimal point may be defined.
Use for extented accuracy.

8.) Date
Date in the format of YYYY-MM-DD.  Use as a date.

9.) Timestamp
Number of seconds since the beginning of the UNIX Epoch '1970-01-01 00:00:01' UTC.
Note that a local Date/Time cast into a Timestamp variable or column are converted 
into seconds from the UNIX epoch.  
Use when date/times need to be manipulated mathmatically or the servers may span 
multiple time zones.

10.) Boolean
True/False.  Note mySQL does not natively support booleans but rather represents 
as a TinyInt where 0 is false , non-zero -true.
Use for true/false values.



What is your favorite thing you learned this week?
How the ENGINE type , e.g INNODB , can effect constraints.

Sources
https://www.w3schools.com/mysql/mysql_datatypes.asp
https://www.mysqltutorial.org/mysql-data-types.aspx